# :tada: unplugin-iconify-generator

English | [简体中文](./README-zh.md)

Generate `iconify` format json files based on svg icons.

## :sparkles: Features

1. Based on the Vscode extension `antfu.iconify`, provide DX support for customized icons collection.
2. Normalize svg icons to `iconify` icons collection format json file.

## :memo: Usage

```sh
pnpm i -D unplugin-iconify-generator
```

### Provide DX support for customized icons collection

First please install the Vscode extension `antfu.iconify`.

Currently it supports `vite` / `rollup` / `esbuild` / `webpack`. Taking Vite as an example:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

import Iconify from 'unplugin-iconify-generator/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    Iconify({
      collections: {
        foo: './src/assets/icons'
      }
    }),
  ],
})
```

According to the config above, assume that you have a icon `bar.svg`, put it into `./src/assets/icons/`:

- While **boot of project**, generate iconify format json in `<root>/node_modules/.unplugin-iconify-generator` as default.
- Type in `i-foo-bar` could have intelliSense and mini icon, which `foo` is the prefix, `bar` is the name of icon. More features about DX please refer to the document of `antfu.iconify`.

More details and options, please refer to the *Options* chapter below.

### Normalize svg icons collection

Export core function by `/core`:

```ts
import { type IconifyIcon, parseIcon } from 'unplugin-iconify-generator/core'
// ...
```

For more details plz refer to [source](/src/core)

## :wrench: Options

- `iconifyIntelliSense`: A boolean, indicated whether to enable the support for `antfu.iconify`. Notice that it will edit `.vscode/settings.json`.
- `base`: A string about absolute path, to indicate the root path which is `process.cwd()` in default. It will be used as the base path of other options.
- `collections`: A object, the key is a string represent the prefix of the collection. The value is a path string, all the `.svg` file in the folder will be thought as icons of this collection.

```js
{
  collections: {
    foo: './src/assets/icons'
  }
}
```

Assume you have a icon `'./src/assets/icons/bar.svg'`, you can use it like:
`i-foo-bar`

- `output`: A path string to store the meta data generated by the plugin. Which is `'./node_modules/.unplugin-iconify-generator'` in default.
